=head2 TODO: Add these:

* Amir telling about how and why he translated the Twitter interface to
Hebrew.
* Meeting FLORA/RAFL/Florian Ragwitz.
** He told me that he is going to review and pull my Test::Aggregate
pull request.
** He is German, but he has an English-sounding accent.
*** The English Accent of some Israelis sounding like French (ours seem less
so).
**** We can distinguish between French accent in English and Israeli Hebrew 
accent in English and in Hebrew.
* All the talks I wanted to hear were in room 1 (while sometimes visiting Room 
2 to hear the ends of talks).
* Talk with Amir and Meir about English knowledge vs. translation in non-Hebrew
speaking countries.
** Dutch people know English well, but tend to use Dutch localisation on their
computers.
** Whether you can translate many documents for all Spanish speakers or
teach all Spanish speakers English.
*** Giving fish vs. teaching how to fish.
*** Meir said he once worked with Spanish Electrical Engineers with poor
English and he said they were isolated from the rest of the industry due to
poor English.
* Food was interesting, and sometimes tasty.
** The "Cheese Cake without Cheese"/etc.
* Sawyer's talk about creating a sample CPAN distribution
** https://metacpan.org/module/CPAN::Changes
** Covered Dist-Zilla , Module-Install, module-starter and what every file
does.
* I did not stay for the post-workshop restaurant-going because I was too
tired.
** I found someone to give me a ride back home and we ended up struggling with
the GPS.
* The talk about Template::Flute ( https://metacpan.org/module/Template::Flute
).
** Seems like an interesting and useful concept.
** Less developer friendly than Template-Toolkit/etc.
** Someone asked me that he thought that having a separate XML SPEC file in
addition to the HTML template, was indicative of a problem with the module
or its approach, but I cannot think of any way to avoid it, given the 
limitations of HTML/XHTML.
* Ran's talk about game programming in Perl/SDL and Tweens.
* Ran's Syntactic Sugar talk:
** Had to be trimmed towards the end - the introduction took too long.
** Hopefully Ran can give a rerun on one of the mongers' meeting with more time.
* The Time Management talk was cancelled and we had a 20 minute break (due
to time mismanagement? ;-))
* The Zero to CPAN talk was eventually given by Sawyer instead of Erez Schatz.
** Very nice one, and I've learned about CPAN::Changes (from Florian, though).
* The configuration management talk.
** Gitflow.
** Something else I forgot its name for change/task/project management.
** I asked about integrated solutions (from IBM/etc.) - cost a lot and no
experience with them.
* Sawyer's CGI.pm Must Die talk.
** He said he needed to become energised because the delivery was going to
be emotional.
** The ancedote from the other conference (FOSDEM ?).
** The talk was indeed emotional (though the chat with him before hand 
beforehand kinda made me expect more), but still informative and convincing.
** Dotan's rebuttal of "CGI.pm - the only web-development framework you'll ever
need" was less convincing, but still had a few good points.
*** I'm not convinced that CGI.pm's HTML-generation routines are the last word
in templating system.
* Ynon Perek's "Implementing Perl (Moose) Design Patterns"
** Again, not everything fit inside the time frame.
** Inheritance vs. Roles vs. Containment/delegation and why Inheritance is
bad.
** I was surprised at the implementation of the Factory pattern, and don't
remember the implementation given by Ynon.
* Tamir Lousky - Generating vector graphics with Perl and SVG.
** Very nice eye candy in the slides.
** The introduction to SVG and generating it was quite rudimentary.
** The demonstration and explanation of the tree generation module was
interesting.
* David Tabchnikov - Scaling Up:
** Interesting talk.
** Optimisation vs. Vertical Scaling (buying faster machines) vs. Horizontal
Scaling (buying more machines and distributing them).
** He said there's some speed difference between the various SQL databases,
but he didn't encounter a situation where it would have made much difference.
* Lightning talks:
** Florian Ragwitz about Google Code-In and Google Summer-of-Code.
** ׂGabor Szabo about surviving in an uncooperative workplace.
*** A new middle manager who told him: “I don’t belive in automated testing.”.
*** Create your own Island of sanity.
