=head1 Shlomi Fish’s Report about the 2012 Israeli Perl Workshop

This is my report about the 
L<Israeli Perl Workshop of 2012|http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2012/> . It was
a fun and educational event, and I'm glad I was able to attend it. For better
or for worse, all the talks I attended were in Room 1, but I was still able
to hear the ends of a few talks in Room 2 (because the corresponding talks
in Room 1 ended before them).

I set up an alarm the night before in order to wake up early in time for the
event, and ended up waking up some time before it (and even the alarm time was
much earlier than what I was used to). Then I made some preparations, ate
breakfast, and caught the appropriate bus. After I walked from the bus station
to Shenkar, it took me some time to find the place, because it wasn't the
same entrance as our normal rooms, and the signs were confusing. What I needed
to do was to take the stairs down to the yard, and then go to the organisation
room, but it was hard to find.

There I got my name sticker, the schedule, and some swag from booking.com.

In the yard, I met a few people including 
L<Florian Ragwitz|http://search.cpan.org/~flora/> (a.k.a "FLORA" on CPAN or
"rafl" on IRC - he has many cool modules there, including quite a few XS ones),
who was one of the workshop’s visitors from Germany. Despite being German, his
English accent sounded English to us. Later on we discussed accents in English 
and he noted that the accents of some Israelis he met sounded like French to 
him (while ours seemed less so). This is strange, because Israelis can
distinguish between a French accent in English and an Israeli Hebrew accent in
English. 

Anyway, Florian told me that he is planning on reviewing and pulling my
Test::Aggregate GitHub pull request Real Soon Now™, a fact which has brought
me some relief, because I've tried to contact him on IRC and ask him if he
remembers.

For better or for worse, all the talks that I preferred to hear took place in
room #1 (while sometimes visiting Room #2) to hear the ends of talks. I still
would be happy to hear many of the talks that took place in Room #2 in the
normal Tel Aviv Perl Mongers meetings, or alternatively, those talks in room #1
which lacked enough time to be conveyed satisfactorily.

The first talk in the day was Ran Eilam’s talk about "Syntactic Sugar causes
Cancer of the Semicolon”, which had to be trimmed towards the end, because
the introduction may have taken too long. The talk was interesting starting
from an example of C<< ptr->val >> being sugar in the C programming language
for C<< (*ptr).val >> and continuing to further examples. Ran raised the issue
of whether syntactic sugar was important or not, which turns out to not be
a straightforward question. He then demonstrated some modules for syntactic
sugar on CPAN.

I hope Ran can give a rerun of it on one of the mongers' meetings with more
time allocated for that.

After that I attended the talk of Stefan Hornburg (“racke”) about
L<Template::Flute|http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2012/talk/3955> which is a
designer’s friendly template system. In this template, one uses an HTML file
with standard HTML attributes for designating the fields that needs to be
replaced, and then an XML specification file that specifies how to process 
the HTML (and in addition one uses Perl to give it data). As a result the 
designers can manipulate the HTML with their own tools, while still
allowing the programmers to populate it with data.

This seems like an interesting and potentially useful tool, but it’s
less expressive than template systems such as Template Toolkit. After the talk,
another attendee whom we talked in private questioned the need for both the
HTML file and the XML specification, but I didn't find a way to avoid it
given the constraints that the HTML will be valid HTML 4/XHTML 1.

The next talk about Time Management in Software Projects was cancelled because
the presenter did not come (due to lack of time management as we joked then).
I was able to catch a glimpse of the end of Dotan Dimet’s “Perl and JavaScript:
bioinformatics in a browser window” talk, but I don’t remember a lot for
it except for some demonstration.

The talk about Zero to CPAN was eventually given by Sawyer instead of by
Erez Schatz. It was a nice one, and I've learned about 
L<the CPAN-Changes module|http://metacpan.org/release/CPAN-Changes> there
(after Florian mentioned it, though). Sawyer covered the way to get to a
working CPAN-like distribution from scratch using tools such as
module-starter and explained what every file in the CPAN module hierarchy
does, and demonstrated some test-driven-development. I knew most of it already,
but it was still a fun talk.

Amir Friedman‘s talk about software configuration management (SCM) came next, 
and he discussed some open-source solutions for the various parts of SCM,
which include version control, release management, task management, and
project management. He recommended Gitflow (which we had a talk about
on the Tel Aviv mongers mailing list) for version control and release
management, and a different solution called Jenkins for issue tracking (if
I remember correctly). I then asked what he thought of integrated “all-in-one”
solutions for SCM, and he said that those were pricey and he did not have
any significant experience with them.

The lunch break came next and I overheard a talk between two other people
about teaching English to speakers of non-English languages. One of them
said that he once worked with some Spanish Electrical Engineers and that they
were “completely isolated” from the rest of the world because they didn’t
read the literature in English. Then we discussed whether it was economical
to teach hundreds of millions of speakers of Spanish English, or whether
we should expect most things to be translated. It was compared to the
“give a man a fish” vs. “teach a man to fish”. We also discussed the fact that
Dutchmen tended to have very good English, and one of the other people
commented that it was true, but that they still tended to prefer using
software with Dutch localisation.

I’ve also talked with Sawyer about his upcoming 
L<“CGI.pm MUST DIE!” talk|http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2012/talk/3936>. He
said that he needs to become mentally energised for that talk because he
feels strongly about it and wants to convey the energy. He passed an
anecdote from a conference in Europe, in which he had given a talk about
Dancer, and said he was so emotional then that people said “You must
see him” and rushed to see his other talk. Moreover, afterwards, when asked
who were the two best presenters in the conference, they said “[Someone
very famous] and that Dancer guy”.

The anti-CGI.pm presenting was indeed energetic and emotional, but kinda fell
below my expectations due to the yard talk that preceded it. It was still
pretty informative. Dotan Dimet later took the stage for the rebuttal
of “CGI.pm - the only web development framework you’ll ever need” which was
less emotional but still interesting. I was not convinced that CGI.pm’s
HTML generation routines were a good way to do output HTML (I never really
liked them), so I may have been more convinced by Sawyer.

Ynon Perek's L<talk|http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2012/talk/3977> about
“Implementing Perl (Moose) Design Patterns” came next, which was interesting,
but again lacked adequate time to cover everything, and I hope will be given
with less time constraints. One anecdote from there was that Ynon said there
where three primary ways for polymorphism in Perl: Inheritance (“is-a”), 
Roles/Traits (“does-a”) and Containment/Delegation (“has-a”) and that
he could no longer recommend inheritance (but did not get to explain why not
from what I recall).

In any case, I was surprised at Ynon’s implementation of the Factory
pattern, and don’t remember the implementation given by him.

=head2 TODO: Add these:

* Amir telling about how and why he translated the Twitter interface to
Hebrew.
* Meeting FLORA/RAFL/Florian Ragwitz.
** He told me that he is going to review and pull my Test::Aggregate
pull request.
** He is German, but he has an English-sounding accent.
*** The English Accent of some Israelis sounding like French (ours seem less
so).
**** We can distinguish between French accent in English and Israeli Hebrew 
accent in English and in Hebrew.
* All the talks I wanted to hear were in room 1 (while sometimes visiting Room 
2 to hear the ends of talks).
* Talk with Amir and Meir about English knowledge vs. translation in non-Hebrew
speaking countries.
** Dutch people know English well, but tend to use Dutch localisation on their
computers.
** Whether you can translate many documents for all Spanish speakers or
teach all Spanish speakers English.
*** Giving fish vs. teaching how to fish.
*** Meir said he once worked with Spanish Electrical Engineers with poor
English and he said they were isolated from the rest of the industry due to
poor English.
* Food was interesting, and sometimes tasty.
** The "Cheese Cake without Cheese"/etc.
* Sawyer's talk about creating a sample CPAN distribution
** https://metacpan.org/module/CPAN::Changes
** Covered Dist-Zilla , Module-Install, module-starter and what every file
does.
* I did not stay for the post-workshop restaurant-going because I was too
tired.
** I found someone to give me a ride back home and we ended up struggling with
the GPS.
* The talk about Template::Flute ( https://metacpan.org/module/Template::Flute
).
** Seems like an interesting and useful concept.
** Less developer friendly than Template-Toolkit/etc.
** Someone asked me that he thought that having a separate XML SPEC file in
addition to the HTML template, was indicative of a problem with the module
or its approach, but I cannot think of any way to avoid it, given the 
limitations of HTML/XHTML.
* Ran's talk about game programming in Perl/SDL and Tweens.
* Ran's Syntactic Sugar talk:
** Had to be trimmed towards the end - the introduction took too long.
** Hopefully Ran can give a rerun on one of the mongers' meeting with more time.
* The Time Management talk was cancelled and we had a 20 minute break (due
to time mismanagement? ;-))
* The Zero to CPAN talk was eventually given by Sawyer instead of Erez Schatz.
** Very nice one, and I've learned about CPAN::Changes (from Florian, though).
* The configuration management talk.
** Gitflow.
** Something else I forgot its name for change/task/project management.
** I asked about integrated solutions (from IBM/etc.) - cost a lot and no
experience with them.
* Sawyer's CGI.pm Must Die talk.
** He said he needed to become energised because the delivery was going to
be emotional.
** The ancedote from the other conference (FOSDEM ?).
** The talk was indeed emotional (though the chat with him before hand 
beforehand kinda made me expect more), but still informative and convincing.
** Dotan's rebuttal of "CGI.pm - the only web-development framework you'll ever
need" was less convincing, but still had a few good points.
*** I'm not convinced that CGI.pm's HTML-generation routines are the last word
in templating system.
* Ynon Perek's "Implementing Perl (Moose) Design Patterns"
** Again, not everything fit inside the time frame.
** Inheritance vs. Roles vs. Containment/delegation and why Inheritance is
bad.
** I was surprised at the implementation of the Factory pattern, and don't
remember the implementation given by Ynon.
* Tamir Lousky - Generating vector graphics with Perl and SVG.
** Very nice eye candy in the slides.
** The introduction to SVG and generating it was quite rudimentary.
** The demonstration and explanation of the tree generation module was
interesting.
* David Tabchnikov - Scaling Up:
** Interesting talk.
** Optimisation vs. Vertical Scaling (buying faster machines) vs. Horizontal
Scaling (buying more machines and distributing them).
** He said there's some speed difference between the various SQL databases,
but he didn't encounter a situation where it would have made much difference.
* Lightning talks:
** Florian Ragwitz about Google Code-In and Google Summer-of-Code.
** ׂGabor Szabo about surviving in an uncooperative workplace.
*** A new middle manager who told him: “I don’t belive in automated testing.”.
*** Create your own Island of sanity.
