<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Israeli Perl Workshop 2012 - 25 February 2013</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-28-December-2011">

<h2>Israeli Perl Workshop 2013 - 25 February 2013</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
<a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/">סדנת הפרל הישראלית לשנת 2013</a> תתקיים
ב-25 בפברואר, 2013. זהו כנס יומי שיתקיים
<a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/location.html">במכללת שנקר ברמת-גן</a>.
לעיונכם נתונה
<a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/talks">רשימת המצגות</a>
שתינתנה בסדנה, בה יהיו שני מסלולים.
</p>

<p>
הפעם יידרש תשלום עבור הכנס, כדי לכסות את ההוצאות, ויש צורך להירשם (בקישור), אז הקדימו להירשם היום. בנוסף,
אם אתם, או חברה מסחרית אחרת שאתם מכירים מעוניינים לתת חסות לסדנה, אנא פנו למארגניה.
</p>

<p>
הפעם סימן הכנס הוא "פרל מעשית" (Perl in Practice) ואנו מקווים שרוב ההרצאות בכנס תהיינה על
יישומים מעשיים שנכתבו או יכתבו בשפת פרל.
</p>

<p>
פרל הינה שפת תכנות דינמית וחזקה שנמצאת תחת פיתוח פעיל, ושיש לה מאגר הרחבות פעיל ופורה בשם
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CPAN">CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network)</a>.
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">דף הבית של שוחרי הפרל הישראליים</a>
 מכיל מידע נוסף וקישורים נוספים לגבי הפעילות של חובבי השפה בישראל.
</p>

<p>
הפעם יתארחו בסדנה מספר אורחים מחו"ל וביניהם <a href="http://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%99_%D7%95%D7%95%D7%9C">לארי וול</a>, 
הידוע כיוצר שפת פרל (ומספר מיזמים חשובים מוקדמים וביניהם הגרסה הראשונה של תוכנת ההטלאה 
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patch_%28Unix%29">patch</a>) 
שגם יציג בכנס; אליו תתלווה רעייתו גלוריה. בהמשך נעדכן את שמותיהם של האורחים הנוספים.
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
The <a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/">Israeli Perl Workshop of 2013</a> will take
place on 25 February, 2013. It will be a daily conference which will
take place <a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/location.html">in Shenkar College in
Ramat Gan</a>. One can view the <a href="http://act.perl.org.il/ilpw2013/talks">list of
talks</a> that will be given in the conference, where there are going to be two tracks.
</p>

<p>
‎This time the conference will cost some money in order to cover the costs and, so there
is a need to register (just follow the link). Therefore, please register as soon as possible. In addition, if
you, or a different company that you know, are willing to sponsor the workshop, please
contact the organisers.
</p>

<p>
Perl is a dynamic and powerful programming language which is under active development,
and which has an active and comprehensive extension repository called
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CPAN">CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network)</a>.
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">The home page of the Israeli Perl Mongers</a>
contains other information and more links about the activity of Perl's Israeli enthusiasts.
</p>

<p>
This year's conference will sport some guests from abroad, including
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Wall">Larry Wall</a>, who is known as
the creator of the Perl programming language (and some earlier software projects such
as the original <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patch_%28Unix%29">patch
program for UNIX</a>), and who will give a
talk at the conference; he will be accompanied by his wife, Gloria. We will publish
the names of the other guest speakers as we learn about them.
</p>

<p>
Everyone is welcome to attend.
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
