<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 28 May, 2014</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-26-March-2014">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 28 May, 2014</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-28 במאי 2014 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו שבו ניפגש לשמוע
את הרצאתו של ינון פרק על ”עורך הטקסט וים למפתחי פרל“.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, חדר 247 (הבניין
הישן ברחוב אנה פרנק) ברמת גן. ראוי לציין שקשה מעט למצוא את החדר וכדי לעשות זאת
יש לעלות לקומה שנייה, ואז למצוא גרם מדרגות המוביל לדלת, לעלות בגרם המדרגות
,להיכנס בדלת, ושם ממוקמים החדרים האלו
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">בדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
לוח הזמנים למפגש הוא:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
18:30 - 19:00 : התכנסות ומפגש חברתי.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
19:00 - 20:00 : ינון פרק - ”עורך הטקסט וים למפתחי פרל“.
</p>

<p>
כשאנו כותבים קוד, כתיבת הקוד עצמה היא פעולה שיכולה לקחת הרבה זמן. שימוש בעורך טקסט טוב, עם התאמה נכונה שלו, יכולה לשפר מאוד את קצב העבודה. בהרצאה זו אנו נתמקד בעורך הטקסט וים, ונראה כיצד התאמה נכונה של העורך תאפשר לנו להיות יעילים יותר בעת עבודת הקידוד. אנו נתחיל עם התקנה נקייה של וים, ונלמד איך להתאים אותו לצרכים של מפתח פרל כדי ליצור תהליך עבודה יעיל.
</p>

</li>

<li>
<p>
20:00 - … : נלך לבית קפה או מסעדה.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
The next Tel Aviv Perl Mongers meeting will be held on Wednesday,
28 May 2014, and we will meet to hear Ynon Perek’s talk about
“The Vim Text Editor for Perl Developers”. We will meet
in Shenkar College in Ramat Gan, Room 247 in the old building
(Entrance from Anna Frank St.). Finding the room is somewhat difficult, and,
in order to get to it, one should climb to the second floor, find a flight
of stairs that leads to a door, climb it and enter the door and the room is there.
</p>

<p>
We will gather at 18:30 and the talks are going to start at 19:00.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
The agenda this month includes:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
<b>18:30 - 19:00</b> : Get-together.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>19:00-20:00</b> : Ynon Perek - “The Vim Text Editor for Perl Developers”
</p>

<p>
Editing text takes a lot of time. By using and customising a good text editor,
we can get more work done in less time. In this talk I’m going to take Vim and
show how a Perl developer can get a lot more productive by using it. We’ll
start with a plain out-of-the-box Vim installation and add plugins and
customisations to create a perl oriented workflow.
</p>

</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>20:00-</b> : We'll go to a café or restaurant.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Attending the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone is welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
