<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 29 January, 2014</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-29-January-2014">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 29 January, 2014</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-26 בפברואר 2014 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, חדר 247 (הבניין
הישן ברחוב אנה פרנק) ברמת גן. ראוי לציין שקשה מעט למצוא את החדר וכדי לעשות זאת
יש לעלות לקומה שנייה, ואז למצוא גרם מדרגות המוביל לדלת, לעלות בגרם המדרגות
,להיכנס בדלת, ושם ממוקמים החדרים האלו
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">בדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>,
<a href="http://szabgab.com/introduction-to-dart.html">ובדף על אודות ההרצאה בבלוג של גאבור סבו</a>.
</p>

<p>
לוח הזמנים למפגש הוא:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
18:30 - 19:00 : התכנסות ומפגש חברתי.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
19:00 - 20:00 : גאבור סבו - שפת התכנות דארט (Dart).
</p>

<p>
דארט (Dart) הינה שפת תכנות שפותחה על ידי גוגל כדי ”להחליף את ג'אווה-סקריפט“.
כרגע אני מתנסה איתה וברצוני לחלוק את מה שגיליתי עד כה.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
20:00 - … : נלך לבית קפה או מסעדה.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
The next Tel Aviv Perl Mongers meeting will be held on Wednesday -
29 January, 2014, in Shenkar College in Ramat Gan, Room 2207 (Mitchell Building - entrance from Yeda Am St.).
</p>

<p>
We will gather at 18:30 and the talks will start at 19:00.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
The agenda this month includes:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
<b>18:30 - 19:00</b> : Get-together.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>19:00-20:00</b> : Ynon Perek - The Catalyst Web Development Framework
</p>
<p>
<a href="http://www.catalystframework.org/">Catalyst</a> is a web development framework for Perl.
</p>

<p>
The talk will involve:
</p>

<ul>
<li>A small comparison with other web frameworks (or why you should choose
Catalyst)</li>

<li>Writing a dead simple REST API</li>

<li>Rendering some HTML with Template Toolkit</li>

<li>Integrating with plack</li>

<li>Integrating with DBIx::Class</li>

<li>Questions &amp; Answers</li>
</ul>

</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>20:00-</b> : We'll go to a café or restaurant.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Attending the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
