<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 19 September, 2012</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-19-September-2012">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 19 September, 2012</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-19 בספטמבר 2012 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, חדר 2106, קומה שנייה, בבנין החדש - כניסה מרחוב
ידע עם 8, רמת-גן.
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<a href="http://ynonperek.com/">ינון פרק</a> -
<b>מטה-מוס</b>:
שימוש במטה-עצם, הוספת שיטות באופן דינמי, משחק עם שדות וכו. (20 דקות).
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">שלומי פיש</a>:
<a href="http://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%A4%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%98_%D7%90%D7%95%D7%99%D7%9C%D7%A8"><b>פרויקט
אוילר</b></a>
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
משה נחמיאס: <b>הצגת תוכנת סטטיסטיקות הדוא"ל.</b>
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
On 19 September, 2012 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup. We meet at 18:30 and the
talks begin at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College, 8th Yeda Am street, Ramat Gan, Floor 2,
room 2106 in the new building.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li><p><a href="http://ynonperek.com/">Ynon Perek</a>: Meta-Moose (using the meta object, dynamically add methods, play with attributes etc.) (20 min)</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish</a>:
<a href="http://projecteuler.net/">Project Euler</a>.</p></li>
<li><p>Moshe Nahmias: introducing the mail stats program.</p></li>
</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
