<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 19 September, 2012</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-19-September-2012">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 21 November, 2012</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-29 בנובמבר 2012 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, חדר 2103, בבנין מיצ'ל - כניסה מרחוב
ידע עם 8, רמת-גן.
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
<a href="https://idkn.wordpress.com/">עידו קנר</a> - כריכת ספריות משותפות בפרל.
</p>

<p>
סקירה של מה הן ספריות משותפות (shared libraries), וכיצד לכרוך את השגרות שבהן לפרל.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<a href="http://mobileweb.ynonperek.com/about">ינון פרק</a> - ווב זמן אמת באמצעות Pocket::IO.
</p>

<p>
האינטרנט משנה כיוון. יותר ויותר אתרים רוצים לעדכן את הגולשים שלהם בזמן אמת
בשינויים המתרחשים בשרת (למשל, גולש אחר העלה תמונה). ספרייה בשם Socket IO
מאגדת את כל הדרכים השונות לשלוח הודעות מהשרת למחשבי הגולשים ומאפשרת למתכנת
לכתוב יישום אינטרנט המתעדכן בזמן אמת.
vti מימש את הספרייה בפרל תחת השם Pocket::IO. בהרצאה זו אציג את הרעיונות
מאחורי Real Time Web, כולל דוגמאות קוד בפרל המשתמשות בספרייה כדי לייצר
אתרים אינטרקטיביים.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<a href="http://blogs.perl.org/users/sawyer_x/">סוייר X</a> - לשפוך אור על ביטויים רגולריים.
</p>

<p>
האם אתם משתמשים בביטויים רגולריים? לא? האם אתם רוצים להשתמש בהם? האם לדעתכם
הם מסובכים או מבלבלים? בואו ננסה לתקן זאת. הרצאה שתעשה למתחילים הכרות עם
ביטויים רגולריים פשוטים, חכמים וקלים להבנה.
</p>

</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
The next Tel Aviv Perl Mongers meeting will be held on Wednesday - November
29th, same location as last month - Shenkar College in Ramat Gan - Ana
Frank 12, Room 2103 (Mitchell Building).
</p>

<p>
We will gather at 18:30 and the talks will start at 19:00.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
This agenda this month incldues:
</p>

<ul>

<li>

<p>
<a href="https://idkn.wordpress.com/">Ido Kanner</a> - binding shared libraries with Perl.
</p>

<p>
Overview of what shared libraries are, and how to bind their functions to Perl.
</p>

</li>

<li>
<p>
<a href="http://mobileweb.ynonperek.com/about">Ynon Perek</a> - Real Time Web with Pocket::IO.
</p>

<p>
The Internet is changing direction. More and more web-sites want to notify their visitors in real
time about changes that happen on the server (for instance, a different visitor uploaded a photo).
A library called Socket IO unifies all the various ways to send messages from the server to the
computers of the visitors and allows the programmer to write an Internet application that gets updated
in real time. vti implemented the library in Perl as Pocket::IO.
</p>

<p>
In this talk, I will present the ideas behind Real Time Web, including code excerpts in Perl which
use the library in order to create interactive sites.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p><a href="http://blogs.perl.org/users/sawyer_x/">Sawyer X</a> - Regular Expressions Demystified</p>

<p>
Do you use Regular Expressions? No? Would you like to? Do you find them complicated or confusing?
Let's try to fix that. A beginner's talk for introducing simple, smart, easy-to-understand Regular
Expressions.
</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
Attending the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
