<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting for 31-August-2011</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-30-March-2011">

<!-- Tags: foss, open, source, perl, israel, events
-->


<h2>2011-03-08: Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 March, 2011</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew message will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-30 למרץ (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו! 
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב19:00. 
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, אנה פרנק 12, רמת גן. חדר 323. 
במפגש זה נדון במספר נושאים של תצוגה: גופנים ויצירת משחקים גרפיים!
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>


<ul>
<li><b>טיפוגרפיה… מה לעזאזל?</b>
(או "הבנה ושימוש נכון") -- Miss Ferret<br />
הגיע הזמן להכניס קצת צבע לחיים. נסביר מהי טיפוגרפיה ולמה בחירת הגופן שלנו חשובה.
</li>

<li>
<b>תכנות משחקים גרפיים בעזרת פרל </b>
-- רן עילם<br />
אוהבים משחקים? רוצים לכתוב אחד? 
רן יראה לנו את הפרוייקט האישי שלנו, משחק שנכתב בפרל בעזרת הספריה הגרפית SDL.
</li>
</ul>

<p>
בנוסף, יהיו גם הרצאות בזק (הרצאות קצרות ומשעשעות):
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<b>רובי למתכנתי פרל</b>
-- עידו קנר</li>
<li>
<b>פרל אנליטית "use" vs. "require"</b> -- סוייר</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
On 30 March, 2011 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their monthly 
meetup. We meet at 18:30 and start at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College,
Anna Frank 12, Ramat Gan, Room 323. The theme of this meeting will be 
several topics of display: fonts and creation of graphical games!
</p>

<p>
One can find more details in <a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>"Typography… what the hell?"</b> (or "understanding fonts and using them properly") by
Miss Ferret.
</p>
<p>
It's time to enliven our lives. We'll explain what is Typography and why picking up a font is important.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>Programming graphical games using Perl</b> - by Ran Eilam.
</p>

<p>
Do you love games? Want to write one? Ran will show us his personal project, a
game that was written in Perl using the multimedia and games library SDL - Simple
DirectMedia Library.
</p>

</li>
</ul>

<p>
In addition, there will be some lightning talks (short and entertaining presentations):
</p>

<ul>
<li>Ruby for Perl programmers - by Ido Kanner</li>
<li>Analytical Perl - "use" vs. "require" - by Sawyer</li>
</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
