<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 29 January, 2014</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-29-January-2014">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 29 January, 2014</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-29 בינואר 2014 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, חדר 2207, בבנין מיצ'ל - כניסה מרחוב
ידע עם 8, רמת-גן.
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
לוח הזמנים למפגש הוא:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
18:30 - 19:00 : התכנסות ומפגש חברתי.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
19:00 - 20:00 : ינון פרק - <b>ברוכים הבאים ל-Catalyst</b>.
</p>

<p>
Catalyst
הינה תשתית לפיתוח יישומי ווב עבור פרל. ינון יציג אותה, ישווה בינה לבין
תשתיות
דומות אחרות ויסביר מעט על כיצד עובדים איתה.
</p>

</li>

<li>
<p>
20:00 - … : נלך לבית קפה או מסעדה.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
The next Tel Aviv Perl Mongers meeting will be held on Wednesday - 
29 January, 2014, in Shenkar College in Ramat Gan, Room 2207 (Mitchell Building - entrance from Yeda Am St.).
</p>

<p>
We will gather at 18:30 and the talks will start at 19:00.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
The agenda this month includes:
</p>

<ul>

<li>
<p>
<b>18:30 - 19:00</b> : Get-together.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>19:00-20:00</b> : Ynon Perek - The Catalyst Web Development Framework
</p>
<p>
<a href="http://www.catalystframework.org/">Catalyst</a> is a web development framework for Perl.
</p>

<p>
The talk will involve:
</p>

<ul>
<li>A small comparison with other web frameworks (or why you should choose
catalyst)</li>

<li>Writing a dead simple REST API</li>

<li>Rendering some HTML with Template Toolkit</li>

<li>Integrating with plack</li>

<li>Integrating with DBIx::Class</li>

<li>Questions &amp; Answers</li>
</ul>

</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>20:00-</b> : We'll go to a café or restaurant.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Attending the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
