<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 November, 2011</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-30-March-2011">

<h2>2011-03-08: Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 November, 2011</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
<b>שימו לב לשינוי במיקום!</b>
 זהו הבניין שבו קיימנו את מפגשי שוחרי הפרל התל-אביביים בהתחלה ולא זה ששימש
עבור מספר הפגישות האחרונות.
</p>

<p>
ב-30 בנובמבר 2011 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו! 
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00. 
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, בניין ראשי ברחוב אנה פרנק, רמת גן, חדר 300. 
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>כלי הפרלאים, סקירה קצרה של ארבעה מודולים</b> (מאת ארז שץ)
אנו נכסה ארבעה מודולים שהופכים את החיים של מפתח פרל מודרנית לקלים יותר ממה שהיו
בעבר: local::lib, cpanm, perlbrew ו-pm-uninstall.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>DBIx::Class וממפי עצמים-בסיסי-נתונים יחסיים</b> (מאת ארז שץ) -
מה הן שכבות מיפוי עצמים-בסיסי-נתונים יחסיים (ORM), מדוע אנו צריכים אותן,
ומה DBIx::Class מספקת לכלל מתכנתי הפרל. 
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>פיירבירד (Firebird): בסיס נתונים שלא מעלה את הנתונים שלכם באש</b> (מאת עידו קנר) -
מבוא לבסיס הנתונים פיירבירד ולסיבות שבגללן הוא מוערך כל כך על ידי אלה שמשתמשים
בו.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
<b>Please note the change of venue.</b> This is the building where we started
having TA.pm, and not the one which we used for the last few meetings.
</p>

<p>
On 30 November, 2011 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup. We meet at 18:30 and the talks begin at 19:00. The address is: 
Shenkar College, main building on Anna Frank street, Ramat Gan, Room 300.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details in <a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Tools of the perl, a quick survey of 4 modules</b> (by Erez Schatz)
We will cover four modules that make the life of a  Modern Perl developer
much easier than it used to be: local::lib, cpanm, perlbrew, pm-uninstall.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>DBIx::Class and ORMs</b> (by Erez Schatz) - What is an ORM, why do we need it, 
and what does DBIx::Class bring to the table for perl programmers at large.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>Firebird: a database that does not burn your data</b> (by ik)
An introduction to the Firebird database and to why it is so highly-regarded
by those who use it.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
