<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 28 December, 2011</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-28-December-2011">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 28 December, 2011</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
<b>שימו לב לשינוי במיקום!</b>
 זהו הבניין שבו קיימנו את מפגשי שוחרי הפרל התל-אביביים בהתחלה, ולא זה ששימש
עבור מספר פגישות לאחרונה.
</p>

<p>
ב-28 בדצמבר 2011 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו, והפעם הוא יהיה
מיוחד!
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00.
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, בניין ראשי ברחוב אנה פרנק, רמת גן, חדר 300.
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>ויזואליזציה של המוח של וים</b> - רן עילם -
אהבתם אותו ב"תשתיות לפיתוח משחקים בעזרת SDL, Moose ו-Coro", בכיתם בעקבות הביצוע
שלו במפגשים אחרי ההרצאות, ותעריצו אותו לחלוטין ב"ויזואליזציה של המוח של וים". האגדה
החיה רן עילם ירצה לנו (מתחילים ומומחים כאחד) על וים (Vim) ועל כיצד לעכל את החיה
הזאת. מילת אזהרה: שתי השורות הראשונות בקהל יפגעו מלהבות חוצבות כנגד אימקס (Emacs).
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>צרור מודולים שהיה הגיוני לכתוב</b> - סוויר אקס:
אני הולך לסקור מספר מודולים לשימושי שכתבתי, מדוע הם נכתבו, ומתי הם שימושיים.
בסוף תצטרכו לשפוט אם היה זה בכלל כדאי לכתוב אותם. יהיו גם קלפיות של הצבעה!
(אנחנו נכסה את Algorithm::Diff::Callback, App::Genpass, Data::PowerSet::Hash
ו-Module::Version.)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>לשדרג או לא לשדרג - פרל 5.6 כנגד פרל 5.14</b> - עידו קנר כנגד סוויר אקס:
מקור גדול של דאגה בקהילת משתמשי הפרל היא האם להשתמש בגרסה עדכנית של
פרל ואיזו גרסה צריכה להיחשב "ישנה מדי". מצד אחד, יש לנו את ההנהלה שרוצה
עד כמה שפחות עלות ושינויים (ולפעמים גם מנהלי המערכות רוצים בכך), ומצד שני
המפתח שרוצה להשתמש בטכנולוגיות החדשות ביותר, ופעמים רבות תקוע במערכות
שאבד עליהן כלח.
</p>
<p>
לאור שיקול רציני זה, אנו הולכים, איש בתורו, לתקוע מקל אחד בשני, כשאנו
חובשים כובעים מצחיקים, ולדון את הלא מאמינים והכופרים לגיהינום
עד שידגלו בצד אחד: 5.6 או 5.14!
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
<b>Please note the change of venue.</b> This is the building where we started
having TA.pm, and not the one which we used for some of the recent meetings.
</p>

<p>
On 28 December, 2011 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup, and this time it is going to be special. We meet at 18:30 and the
talks begin at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College, main building on Anna Frank street, Ramat Gan, Room 300.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Visualizing the brain of Vim</b> by Ran Eilam -
You loved him in "Game frameworks with SDL, Moose and Coro", you cried over
his performance in the after-meeting get-togethers, and you will absolutely
adore him in "Visualizing the brain of Vim". All-star legend Ran Eilam will
talk to us (both beginners and experts) about Vim and how to fathom this
incredible beast. I warn you, the first two lines in the audience will be
damaged by Emacs flames.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>A bunch of modules which made sense writing</b> - by Sawyer X:
I'm going to cover some utility modules I've written, why they were written
and when they are useful. At the end, you'll have to judge whether they were
worth writing at all.  There will be voting booths available!
(We'll cover Algorithm::Diff::Callback, App::Genpass, Data::PowerSet::Hash
and Module::Version.)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>To upgrade or not to upgrade, Perl 5.6 vs. Perl 5.14</b> - ik vs. Sawyer X:
A source of great concern in the Perl users community is whether to use an
up-to-date Perl and what version should be considered "too old". On one
hand, we have the management that wants as little cost and changes as possible
(sometimes along with systems administrators), and on the other hand, the
developer who wants to use the latest technologies, and is often
stuck on obsolete systems.
</p>

<p>
In light of this serious consideration, we're going to take turns poking at
each other with a stick, wearing funny hats, damning the unbelievers and
heretics until they submit to one side: 5.6 or 5.14!
</p>

</li>

</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
