<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 May, 2011</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-28-December-2011">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 May, 2011</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
ב-30 במאי 2012 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00. 
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, בניין ראשי ברחוב אנה פרנק, רמת גן, חדר 300. 
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>מלקוח לביצוע</b> -  - עידו קנר
ההרצאה תסביר מה הוא Redis במילים אחדות, תוכנית הלקוח שכתבתי עבורו, ואילו
כלים יש בפרל כדי להשתמש בו. (40 דקות)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>פרל למתחילים חלק 5</b> - שלומי פיש -
שלומי ישתמש בקהל בתור שפני נסיונות לבדיקת ואימות החלק החמישי בסדרת ההרצאות שלו,
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/lecture/Perl/Newbies/">פרל למתחילים</a> 
, שעוסק בהרגלי תכנות טובים. השקפים מכסים דברים כמו כתיבת בדיקות אוטומטיות,
שימוש במערכות ניהול גרסאות, שימוש ב-Class Accessors, כתיבת תיעוד בעזרת POD,
ושימוש ב-Module-Build ו-Module-Starter.
</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
On 30 May, 2012 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup, and this time it is going to be special. We meet at 18:30 and the
talks begin at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College, main building on Anna Frank street, Ramat Gan, Room 300.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Visualizing the brain of Vim</b> by Ran Eilam - 
You loved him in "Game frameworks with SDL, Moose and Coro", you cried over
his performance in the after-meeting get-togethers, and you will absolutely
adore him in "Visualizing the brain of Vim". All-star legend Ran Eilam will
talk to us (both beginners and experts) about Vim and how to fathom this
incredible beast. I warn you, the first two lines in the audience will be
damaged by Emacs flames.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>A bunch of modules which made sense writing</b> - by Sawyer X:
I'm going to cover some utility modules I've written, why they were written
and when they are useful. At the end, you'll have to judge whether they were
worth writing at all.  There will be voting booths available!
(We'll cover Algorithm::Diff::Callback, App::Genpass, Data::PowerSet::Hash
and Module::Version.)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>To upgrade or not to upgrade, Perl 5.6 vs. Perl 5.14</b> - ik vs. Sawyer X:
A source of great concern in the Perl users community is whether to use an
up-to-date Perl and what version should be considered "too old". On one
hand, we have the management that wants as little cost and changes as possible
(sometimes along with systems administrators), and on the other hand, the
developer who wants to use the latest technologies, and is often
stuck on obsolete systems.
</p>

<p>
In light of this serious consideration, we're going to take turns poking at
each other with a stick, wearing funny hats, damning the unbelievers and
heretics until they submit to one side: 5.6 or 5.14!
</p>

</li>

</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
