<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 02 May, 2012</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-on-02-May-2012">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 02 May, 2012</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
<b>שימו לב: הפגישה נדחתה בעקבות יום הזכרון ותתקיים ב-2 במאי</b>
</p>

<p>
ב-2 במאי 2012 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו, על אודות שני קצוות מנוגדים
של עולם הפרל. 
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00. 
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, בניין ראשי ברחוב אנה פרנק, רמת גן, חדר 300. 
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובאתר של שוחרי הפרל הישראלים</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>גולף פרל</b> - מאת <a href="http://ynonperek.com/">ינון פרק</a>.
גולף קוד הינו אתגר שבו יש לכתוב תוכנית המבצעת משימה מסוימת במספר
המינימלי של תוים.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>שיפוץ קוד פרל</b> - מאת <a href="http://szabgab.com/">גאבור סבו</a>.
שיפוץ קוד (Code refactoring) הינו טכניקה ממושמעת לשינוי המבנה של קוד קיים על מנת לשפר
את האיכות הפנימית והאלגנטיות שלו.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
לאחר ההרצאות נשתתף במיני-האקאתון בו נעבוד ביחד על מודולים של סיפאן.
</p>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
<b>Note: the meeting was delayed due to the Israeli Memorial day</b>
</p>

<p>
On 2 May, 2011 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup, about two extremes of the Perl world. We meet at 18:30 and the
talks begin at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College, main building on Anna Frank street, Ramat Gan, Room 300.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and on <a href="http://perl.org.il/">the web-site of the
Israeli Perl Mongers</a> .
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Perl Golf</b> by <a href="http://ynonperek.com/">Ynon Perek</a>. Code golf is a challenge
in which one should implement a certain programming task using the least amount of
characters.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>Refactoring Perl code</b> by <a herf="http://szabgab.com/">Gabor Szabo</a>. Code refactoring is a "disciplined technique for restructuring an existing body of code,
altering its internal structure without changing its external behavior". It is needed to ensure your code remains readable while growing in size and scope.
</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
After the talks we will hold a mini-hackathon of hacking on CPAN modules.
</p>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
