<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 May, 2012</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="entry" id="telaviv-perl-mongers-meeting-in-30-May-2012">

<h2>Tel Aviv Perl Mongers Meeting on 30 May, 2012</h2>

<p>
(The Hebrew text will be followed by an English one).
</p>

<div align="right" dir="rtl">

<p>
<b>שימו לב</b>
לשינוי במיקום - אנו נפגשים בחדר עם בניין ומספר שונה מהרגיל (ומפרסום מוקדמים).
</p>

<p>
ב-30 במאי 2012 (יום רביעי) נערוך את מפגש הפרל החודשי שלנו.
אנו נפגשים ב-18:30 ומתחילים ב-19:00. 
כתובת: מכללת שנקר, הבניין החדש על שם מיטשל (כניסה מרחוב ידע עם בפינת רחוב
המלאכה), רמת גן, חדר 2205. 
</p>

<p>
פרטים נוספים ניתן למצוא
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">באתר של שוחרי הפרל של תל אביב</a>,
<a href="http://perl.org.il/">ובדף הבית של פרל בישראל</a>.
</p>

<p>
במפגש זה יהיו ההרצאות הבאות:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>מלקוח לביצוע</b> -  - עידו קנר
ההרצאה תסביר מה הוא Redis במילים אחדות, תוכנית הלקוח שכתבתי עבורו, ואילו
כלים יש בפרל כדי להשתמש בו. (40 דקות)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>פרל למתחילים חלק 5</b> - שלומי פיש -
שלומי ישתמש בקהל בתור שפני נסיונות לבדיקת ואימות החלק החמישי בסדרת ההרצאות שלו,
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/lecture/Perl/Newbies/">פרל למתחילים</a> 
, שעוסק בהרגלי תכנות טובים. השקפים מכסים נושאים כמו כתיבת בדיקות אוטומטיות,
שימוש במערכות ניהול גרסאות, שימוש ב-Class Accessors, כתיבת תיעוד בעזרת POD,
ושימוש ב-Module-Build ו-Module-Starter.
</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
המפגש הוא חינמי וכולם מוזמנים. נתראה שם!
</p>

</div>

<h3>English Version</h3>

<p>
<b>Note</b> the change of room from the usual, and from very
early announcements.
</p>

<p>
On 30 May, 2012 (Wednesday), the Tel Aviv Perl Mongers will hold their
monthly meetup. We meet at 18:30 and the
talks begin at 19:00. The address is: Shenkar College, the new Mitchell building, Ramat Gan, Room 2205.
</p>

<p>
One can find more details on
<a href="http://telaviv.pm.org/">the web-site</a> of
the Tel Aviv Perl mongers, and <a href="http://perl.org.il/">on the homepage of
Perl in Israel</a>.
</p>

<p>
This meeting will hold the following talks:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>From client to execution</b> - by Ido Kanner - this talk will explain what 
Redis is in a few words, the client Ido has written for it, and which Perl
tools are available to use it. (40 minutes)
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<b>Perl for Newbies, Part 5</b> - by Shlomi Fish - Shlomi will use the 
audience as guinea pigs for testing and verifying the fifth part of his series
of talks,
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/lecture/Perl/Newbies/">Perl 
    for Perl Newbies</a>,
whose theme is "good programming practices". The slides cover such topics as
writing automated tests, using version control systems, using class accessors,
writing documentation using POD, and using Module-Build and Module-Starter.
</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
The entrance to the meeting is free-of-charge, and everyone are welcome to
attend. See you there!
</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
